Admissions form link: https://eklavyauniversity.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Admission-Form.pdf
EU online admission registration form website link: https://eu.accsofterp.com/OAP_EU/Registration.aspx
EU request information website link : https://eklavyauniversity.ac.in/request-information/


Ph.D. Admission:
Eklavya University offers you a transformative education that ignites your curiosity and allows you to explore, knowing that no matter what path you choose, you’ll be successful. Your college degree is a vital investment in your future. We partner with you and your family to ensure a future ready education.


To achieve excellence in various spheres of Applied Sciences, Basic Sciences, Engineering, Nursing, Education, Agriculture, Management and Arts, Eklavya University has adopted a research driven model. The Ph.D. programs at Eklavya University are central to that model, providing rigorous training for a rewarding academic career and producing future leaders in research and education.

Admission Procedure:
Applications for admission to the Ph.D. program at Eklavya University are accepted twice a year, for January and July sessions in Full time or Part time mode.

Eligibility:
A candidate for enrolment for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy must, at the time of application, hold a Master’s degree with at least 55% marks or an equivalent grade of University/Deemed University or any other University incorporated by any law for the time being in force and recognized by the five percentage marks will be relaxed for SC/ST/OBC/Minority and Handicapped candidates, as directed by the State Government.

How to Apply:
1.Desirous candidates must apply for Entrance test leading to registration for Ph.D. degree of his subject on a prescribed form obtainable on payment of prescribed fee. Candidate may also apply online through the University website.
Doctoral Entrance Test (DET)

2.Doctoral Entrance Test- An entrance test for admission to Ph.D. program shall be conducted for each subject separately.
Post Entrance

3.Candidates who qualify in the Entrance Test shall have to appear for an interview according to the merit list. The interview committee (Departmental Research Committee) shall scrutinize the application of the candidates, discuss the probable topics for research and allocate a supervisor/co-supervisor to the eligible candidates.
Course Work

4.Eligible candidates after recommendation of DRC and Subsequent approval of the Vice Chancellor shall be eligible to attend course work for a period of 6 Months.

5.After successful completion of course work classes the course work examination shall be conducted by the University.

6.Minimum 75% attendance is compulsory to appear for the course work examination.
RDC (Synopsis Presentation) 

7.After successfully clearing the course work examination, candidates shall prepare and submit the synopsis on the selected topic in 5 copies, forwarded by supervisor.

8.The candidate should appear and present his proposed research work in front of Research Degree Committee (RDC).

9.The RDC will examine the suitability of the topic and recommend the candidate for registration to the Ph.D. program. Successful candidates, as recommended by RDC for registration, may be registered for the Ph.D. program.




