School of Agriculture
Aiming to Achieve Sustainable Growth

Agriculture is the backbone of our Nation and its economy. It is a source of employment for over two-thirds of the labour force. Despite its prominent contribution to the GDP, a professional education in Agriculture has gained momentum only recently.

Eklavya University aims to evolve into a leading centre providing student – responsive education, farmer –responsive training and services for the development of Agriculture and agro-industry. The School of Agriculture has introduced many courses in the fields of Agriculture education, Research and Extension to meet and match the pace of current global technological developments. The curriculum is especially designed to train human resources needed for agriculture and to foster the spirit of innovation, research and entrepreneurship.

Seminars, Workshops, Conferences, Educational Tours, Field Trips, Short-term Training Programs, Rural Agricultural Work Experience all for a part of the departments exemplary teaching pedagogy.

Best Agriculture Science College in BundelKhand Madhya Pradesh
The School provides a spectrum of Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral programs in Agriculture, aimed at providing qualified, talented, knowledgeable and professional future innovators, scientists and entrepreneurs committed to a sustainable future. The programs are being run as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). The program offers a range of specializations including – Soil Science, Crop Science (Agronomy), Seed Technology, Horticulture, Agriculture Extension & Communication, and Post-Harvest Technology

Objectives
Provide relevant education, research and training for sustainable agricultural productivity, cost reduction, and farm mechanization
Provide quality education in Agriculture, Horticulture, Co-operation, Forestry, and other allied disciplines.
Raise the agricultural productivity in a farmer-friendly and sustainable way through suitable end-use technologies.
Encourage the youth towards entrepreneurship and rural development.
Generate appropriate technologies to support sustainable growth of agricultural entrepreneurship and agri-business.
Provide consultancy in agriculture to develop innovative extension for enhanced and sustainable agricultural production leading to improved rural livelihoods.




School of Engineering
Aiming to Achieve Innovation

Engineer = Innovator.  The world needs technical talent to innovate and address problems in energy, healthcare, environment, security, communications, and so much more. One of the best engineering colleges in Madhya Pradesh, The School of Engineering at Eklavya University, emphasizes a collaborative, hands-on approach to education, combining class room learning and real-world application in a multidisciplinary program of study. Our goal is to educate and inspire students to become problem solvers and leaders in engineering, technology and related disciplines.

At Eklavya we aim at breaking the mindset that views engineering as a way to ‘get a good job’ and instead recognize it as a way to develop the skills needed for technological innovation and job creation. In addition to core technical learning, students are encouraged to take a range of courses related to innovation, professional development, entrepreneurship, and personality development.


The School of Engineering offers Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Degrees in Engineering, across 8 departments, and is regulated by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).

Objectives
The School of Engineering aims to equip and empower students to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing industrial landscape.

The main objective of the Program is to provide high quality comprehensive education, training, and research opportunities which are compatible with the changing needs of students and the industry. The Faculty of Engineering has the following objectives:

To build a culture of excellence in teaching and learning.
To foster an atmosphere of intellectual excitement and curiosity.
To produce creative and technically strong engineers.
To increase student preparedness to be leaders and innovators in industry and academia.
To design a robust educational program including current and cutting-edge skills in tune with industry requirements to ensure employment.
To provide opportunities for industry relations and develop networking opportunities.
To achieve excellence in application-oriented research to contribute to the development of the region and the nation.
To provide non-educational opportunities to promote over-all personality development.
To develop responsible citizenship through awareness of ethical values.
Departments of Study

Department of Civil Engineering

Department of Computer Science Engineering

Department of Mechanical Engineering

Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering
Diploma
Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.)
M.Tech. Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)
M.Tech. Civil Engineering (CE)
M.Tech Electronics & Communication (EC)
M.Tech Electrical & Electronics Engineering (EX)
M.Tech Mechanical Engineering (ME)
Ph.D

Civil Engineering (CE), Computer Science Engineering (CSE), Electrical & Electronics Engineering (EX), Mechanical Engineering (ME)
Duration – 4 Years
Eligibility- 10th pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.





School of Nursing & Paramedical Sciences
Aiming to Achieve Care with Compassion


Department of Nursing

Department of Paramedical Sciences
Diploma (ANM / GNM)
Diploma
P.B. Diploma
Post Basic B.Sc.
Bachelor of Science – B.Sc. Nursing
Bachelor in Paramedical Sciences
Master of Science – M.Sc. Nursing
Master in Paramedical Sciences
Ph.D.
ANM (2 Years)  | GNM (3 Years)
Duration – 3 Years & 4 Years
Eligibility- 12th pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.





The School of Commerce
Aiming to Achieve Economic Growth

The School of Commerce at Eklavya University is a leading provider of quality education in Madhya Pradesh, India. The School believes in nurturing ethical, committed, socially conscious future business managers who would contribute to nation building.

The School of Commerce offers a range of innovative practices and pedagogy to improve the efficiency, proficiency and competency of students. Faculty from various renowned Universities as well as Corporates provide a mentored valuable learning experience to all the students. These experiences prepare students for the challenges in the real world, and will help them climb up the corporate ladder. The course is in-sync with the latest industry developments and practices. Students are exposed to the best training in in their field of study. The diverse range of studies ensures the best career prospects for our students wherever they go.


The School offers numerous Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Courses in the areas of Management and Commerce.

Objectives
Educate students to enable them to acquire proficiency, a sense of professionalism, integrity and team spirit to work in diverse professional environments and become a successful professional manager.
Provide students with a state-of-the-art learning environment and industry- academia collaboration so as to develop managerial and entrepreneurship qualities.
Demonstrate and apply functional and foundational concepts to think critically and solve business problems.
Encourage innovative thinking by nurturing qualities like issue spotting and opportunity recognition.
Enhance creativity, and thereby generate unique solutions to problems or ways to respond to opportunities.
The Team
The faculty at Eklavya University are great mentors. Faculty members have diverse profiles, and they bring with them a wide range of experiences, knowledge and skills to prepare the future business managers. The teaching cadre includes industry professionals who train students in real time issues and management needs, thereby equipping them with industry specific skills.

Professional Body
The School is approved by AICTE and recognised by the Government of the Madhya Pradesh. The Management of the University comprises of individuals who are active members of FICCI and FLO.

Academic and Industry Interference
The School organises frequent Seminars, Workshops, Conferences, Educational Tours, Industrial Trips, Industry-Interface events, Internships, Short-term Training Programs, Business Plan Competitions, etc. to give students a wide range of experiences. Numerous sessions headlined by Industry Leaders are held.

Career Scope
Entrepreneur | Secretary | Executive | Human Resource Manager | Financial Planner | Economist | Venture Capitalist | Stock Broker | Marketing Manager | Financial Manager | Investment Fund Manager | Health Services Manager | Management Analyst | Business Consultant | Investment Banker | Sales Manager | Accounts Manager

B. Com. (Plain)
B.Com. (Hons.)
B.Com. – Computer Application
M.Com.
Ph.D. Commerce

Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.





The School of Management
Aiming to Achieve Success

The School of Management at Eklavya University is a leading provider of quality Management Education in Madhya Pradesh, India. The School believes in nurturing ethical, committed, socially conscious future business managers who would contribute to nation building. We inspire students to realize their dreams and prepare them to become value-based leaders of tomorrow. We are committed to establishing new standards and benchmarks in the education of Management.

The School of Management offers a range of innovative practices and pedagogy to improve the efficiency, proficiency and competency of students. Faculty from various renowned Universities as well as Corporates provide a mentored valuable learning experience to all the students. These experiences prepare students for the challenges in the real world, and will help them climb up the corporate ladder. The course is in-sync with the latest industry developments and practices. Students are exposed to the best training in in their field of study. The diverse range of studies ensures the best career prospects for our students wherever they go.
The School offers numerous Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Courses.


Objectives
Educate students to enable them to acquire proficiency, a sense of professionalism, integrity and team spirit to work in diverse professional environments and become a successful professional manager.
Provide students with a state-of-the-art learning environment and industry- academia collaboration so as to develop managerial and entrepreneurship qualities.
Demonstrate and apply functional and foundational concepts to think critically and solve business problems.
Encourage innovative thinking by nurturing qualities like issue spotting and opportunity recognition.
Enhance creativity, and thereby generate unique solutions to problems or ways to respond to opportunities.
The Team
The faculty at Eklavya University are great mentors. Faculty members have diverse profiles, and they bring with them a wide range of experiences, knowledge and skills to prepare the future business managers. The teaching cadre includes industry professionals who train students in real time issues and management needs, thereby equipping them with industry specific skills.

Professional Body
The School is approved by AICTE and recognised by the Government of the Madhya Pradesh. The Management of the University comprises of individuals who are active members of FICCI and FLO.

Academic and Industry Interference
The School organises frequent Seminars, Workshops, Conferences, Educational Tours, Industrial Trips, Industry-Interface events, Internships, Short-term Training Programs, Business Plan Competitions, etc. to give students a wide range of experiences. Numerous sessions headlined by Industry Leaders are held.

Career Scope
Entrepreneur | Secretary | Executive | Human Resource Manager | Financial Planner | Economist | Venture Capitalist | Stock Broker | Marketing Manager | Financial Manager | Investment Fund Manager | Health Services Manager | Management Analyst | Business Consultant | Investment Banker | Sales Manager | Accounts Manager

Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)
PGDM
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Ph.D. Management
Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.








School of Arts & Humanities
Aiming to Achieve Transformation

Arts and humanities have a transformative effect on our lives and communities. They act as a mirror to the society. Different streams of Arts and Humanities play a pivotal role in the growth and development of the entire community.

The School of Arts and Humanities, one of the best Arts and Humanities institutes of Eklavya University in M.P, is home to a diverse range of disciplines, which allows for both immersive training in a single area and collaborative, interdisciplinary activities. The program at Eklavya University, studies human experience, thought, expression, and creativity.

A degree in the Arts and Humanities has the potential to give students a great foundation for a lot of different careers. It’s a great area of study for students interested in civil services, social services, development and even politics, as it helps pave the way for taking competitive exams. For still others interested in the corporate sector, media and arts, this area of study helps students build a strong knowledge base required for pursuing a career in public life. Students learn to think critically, express themselves clearly, and analyse new information. These qualities lead to a high degree of professional flexibility and adaptability.


The School offers Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral programs in Arts & Humanities, designed specifically to cater the educational needs of the 21 st century India. Areas of study include – Psychology, Jain and Prakrit, Buddh and Pali, History, Geography, Sociology, Philosophy, Hindi, English, Sanskrit, Economics, Political Science, Ancient Bhartiya Culture, Education, Fine Arts, Performing Arts and Social work.

Objectives
Create synergy for interdisciplinary teaching, learning and research in Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities.
Acquire and develop curiosity about the world and a willingness to incorporate new knowledge into their existing patterns of thought and behaviour.
Introduce students to the breadth, diversity, and creativity of human experiences.
Enrich students’ understanding of their communities, the society and themselves.
Develop students’ ability to think critically and independently.
Enhance students’ ability to communicate effectively with others in a spirit of openness and cooperation.
The Team
The faculty at Eklavya University includes renowned members from various fields including Public Service, Performing Arts, Fine Arts, Linguistics, Historians, Social Workers and many more, all of whom actively contribute to their respective field of work and study. Their diverse backgrounds, coupled with the proficiency provide a unique learning environment to our students.

Career Scope
Public Administrator | Public Planner | International Relations Executive | Social Worker | Writer | Jobs with BPO and KPO firms | Historian | Sociologist | Economist | Political Advisor | Language Interpreter | Artist | Sculptor | Painter | Dancer | Musician | Culture & Heritage Expert | Educator

Academic and Industry Interference
The School conducts regular engagement events between students and celebrated individuals from various areas like – Politics, History, Performers, Social Work, Development Advocates, etc.


Department of Performing Arts

Department of Fine Arts

Department of Social Work

Department of Bhartiya History & Heritage
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Master of Arts (M.A)
Ph.D.
Bachelor of Social Work (BSW)
PGDSW
Master of Social Work (MSW)
Diploma (Junior) or Prathama
Diploma (Senior) or Madhyama
Bachelor of Performing Arts (BPA/Vid)
Bachelor of Music (B.Mus./Vid)
Bachelor of Arts – Music/Dance/Theater (BA/Vid)
Master of Performing Arts (MPA/Kovid)
Master of Music (M.Mus./Kovid)
Master of Arts – Music/Dance/Theater (MA/Kovid)
Ph.D. Performing Arts
Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)
Master of Fine Arts – MFA
Ph.D. Fine Arts
History, Geography, Economics, Political Science, Sociology, Philosophy, Psychology, Hindi, English, Sanskrit, Education, Physical Education, Ancient Indian History & Culture, Jain and Prakrit
Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.






School of Basic & Applied Sciences
Aiming to Achieve Infinite Possibilities
Science is the corner stone of all professional and technical education. Without a keen understanding and through knowledge of basic and applied sciences, technical education is considered only marginally effective. In the growing competitive scenario, a deep understanding of these sciences gives prospective employees a competitive edge.One of the best institutes for Basic & Applied Sciences in Madhya Pradesh, the School of Basic & Applied Sciences at Eklavya University is home to a diverse set of departments that includes departments that include Basic Sciences like – Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Botany and Zoology. Applied sciences like – Microbiology, Biotechnology, Biochemistry, CS & IT and Forensic Sciences. The School lays stress upon modern methods of teaching i.e. applying the latest technological tools. This ensures creative learning and lively classroom interaction.


The School provides a spectrum of Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral programs in Basic & Applied Sciences with an aim of providing qualified, talented, knowledgeable and professional future innovators, scientists and entrepreneurs.

Objective
Train students for challenging careers in the various fields of science and lay a strong foundation for higher study and research.
Equip students with technical knowledge, skill and ability; motivating them to think creatively, helping them to act independently and take decisions accordingly in all scientific pursuits.
Provide students with an education that establishes a strong foundation and appreciation for sciences in the context of the rapid development and advancement we are witnessing today.
Develop technical and critical thinking skills necessary for success in the field of science.
Develop the ability to communicate effectively as technical professionals.
Sensitise students to environmental and ethical issues.
Inculcate entrepreneurship among students.
Empower students and faculty members to contribute to the development of society and Nation.
Labs
The school’s laboratories are well equipped with the latest equipment required to facilitate the pursuit of practical knowledge.

Career Scope
Biological Technician | Lab Assistant | Research Technicians | Process Control | Environmental Science and Protection | Forensic Science Technicians | Forestry and Conservation | Geological and Petroleum Technicians | Nuclear Engineers | Oceanographers | Radiographers | Educators | Plant Biochemist | Environmental Consultant | Software | Banking | Data Entry | Web Developer |

The Team
The Faculty at Eklavya University is committed to providing quality instruction to students. The department is dynamic and progressive in its development of new program initiatives and learning techniques. Faculty ensures teaching is done by way of interactive sessions between students and teachers, and emphasis is laid on practical and hands on learning. The Faculty of Applied and Basic Sciences enjoys an excellent reputation for well qualified and learned faculty which includes Doctoral faculty.

Academic & Industry Interference
The school is dedicated to organizing the National and International conferences, Faculty Development Programs, Workshops and Seminars annually in collaboration with various industries and academic partners to explore, innovate and contribute to the technological advancement of tomorrow.

Departments of Study

Department Of Computer Applications

Department Of Forensic Science
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.)
B.Sc (Hons.)
B.Sc (Hons.)
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Ph.D.
B.Sc. Forensic Sc. with Combination
B.Sc (Hons.) Forensic Science
PGD
Master of Science (M.Sc.) Forensic Science
Diploma Computer Application (DCA)
Bachelor of Computer Application
Post Graduate Diploma of Computer Application (PGDCA)
Master of Computer Application (MCA)
Ph.D.

Maths, Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany, Computer Science, Information Technology
Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass in PCM/PCB from a Recognized Board.






School of Education & Library Science
Aiming to Achieve Excellence in Education


Department of Education

Department of Physical Education

Department of Library & Information Science
Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed.)
Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.)
Master of Eductaion (M.Ed.)
MA Education
B.P.Ed.
B.P.E.S
M.P.E.S
D.Lib.& I.Sc.
B.Lib.& I.Sc.
M.Lib. & I.Sc.
Ph.D.
Duration – 2 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass with 50% (45% for reserved category) in any subject from a Recognized Board.







The School of Naturopathy & Yogic Sciences
Aiming to Achieve Oneness

Yoga is a 5,000-year-old discipline originating from India. Yoga is for everyone. It increases self-awareness and removes negativity from the mind and toxins from the body. It promotes self-healing and recharges the body with cosmic energy. Yoga is a way of life!

The School of Naturopathy & Yogic Sciencesat Eklavya University aims to develop a unified system which integrates physical philosophy and a holistic lifestyle. It promotes a deeper understanding of the ancient philosophies of Yoga and Ayurveda. The program explores the origins and historical development of yoga and meditation in India, from ancient times to the modern world.

The School located at Damoh, is situated amidst picturesque surroundings which offer positive vibes for the spiritual growth of its students. The School is also home to a Pyramid Meditation facility, built under the guidance of Brahmarshi Patriji. Connecting with ourselves and our roots is the guiding principle of the teaching pedagogy adopted by the School.


The School offers a range of Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Degrees in Naturopathy & Yogic Sciences, under the tutelage of Experienced, qualified and skilled faculty members with unique teaching methodologies which makes the School an ideal destination for the study of Yogic Science and Holistic Health.

Objectives
Reinforce an environment that prioritizes physical health, mental health and overall wellness as a foundation for lifelong success and happiness.
Connect with and promote the Ancient Indian traditional practices for good health and long life.
Cultivate awareness of the interconnection between body, mind, spirit and community in order to affect attitudinal change regarding health and wellness./span>
Maintain and promote the different Indian Yoga traditions.
Produce Yoga Therapists of high caliber with in-depth understanding of basic sciences and holistic health techniques.
Create experiences across the curriculum and in the classroom that encourage and motivate health and wellness.
Provide extensive research facilities for carrying out fundamental and clinical research in the discipline of Yoga and its applications keeping in view the socio- economic needs of all sections of the society.
Develop techniques and approaches based on the Ancient Yoga Texts and Granthas of Yoga to meet the challenges of the modern era.
The Team
Highly qualified, experienced and trained faculty members are working towards providing scientific, holistic and spiritual knowledge of Yoga and ancient healing techniques. Faculty members have earned name and fame in the field of Yogic practice and actively propagate the benefits of Yoga and a healthy lifestyle in achieving physical and spiritual oneness.

Academic and Industry Interference
The School continuously organises symposiums, learning sessions, mediation workshops, naturopathy seminars and much more.

Career Scope
Yoga Instructor | Therapist | Yoga Advisor | Yoga Practitioner | Researcher | Nutritionist | Alternative Therapy Healer | Lifestyle Consultant | Life Coach | Naturopathy Consultant | Therapist

Bachelor of Science/ Arts (B.Sc./ BA)
Master of Science / Arts (M.Sc./ MA)
Ph.D.
Yogic Sciences, Alternative Healing, Nutrition Naturopathy, Meditation, Past Life Regression,
Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.






School of Journalism & Mass Communication
Aiming to Achieve Endless Possibilities

Mass Communication has enormously contributed to the growth & empowerment of society. Due to information technology revolution, the field of mass communication has rapidly gained popularity among students as an academic discipline. The School of Mass Communication of Eklavya University is a premier media institution in M.P. The school provides an intensive and integrated media education to students to develop their individual abilities along with enhancing skills to succeed in professional environment. Our main aim is to nurture young budding media professionals with comprehensive media education and inspiring them to make a meaningful contribution in the development of the country.


The School of Mass Communication offers Certificate, Diploma, Graduate and Post- Graduate courses in Mass Communication & Journalism.

Objectives
Achieve global standards for media education, research, extension, and training.
Create a dynamic learning and working environment which nurtures new ideas and creativity.
Nurture skilful, socially committed, and intellectual media professionals.
Develop the overall personality of students by encouraging them to become excellent professionals and good individuals.
Provide hands-on experience of working in large and small media organizations.
Inculcate the highest ethical standards of the profession in the students.
Provide the right media vision and to create a value-based media culture.
The Team
The School provides the highest standard of media education and training with a professionally and academically accomplished faculty and a broad spectrum of professional visiting professionals.

Faculty members promote the environment of teamwork while maintaining the individuality. They train students to discover their hidden talents to reach their highest potential. They demand a high degree of ethics from each students.

Academic and Industry Interference
Regular activities such as seminars, workshops and conferences are conducted by reputed and celebrated media professionals of the country.

Career Scope
Radio Jockey | Video Jockey | Creative Writer | Screen writer | Public Relationship Officer | Actor | Director | Editor | | Journalist | Event Manager | Copywriter | News Anchor | Spokesperson | Sound Engineer| Sound Mixer | Art Director | Light Engineer | Content Creator | Production

Bachelor of Journalism & Mass Communication (BJMC)
Master of Journalism & Mass Communication (MJMC)
Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass in any subject from a Recognized Board.







School of Pharmacy
Aiming to Achieve Sustainable Growth

School of Pharmacy, was established in 2022 and offers quality education and research opportunities in the area of Pharmaceutical Sciences. It offers D.Pharm and B.Pharm courses, approved by Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), New Delhi. The teaching pedagogy emphasises on professional experience and building a learning environment with the highest standards of academic excellence. The pharmacy curriculum includes outcome-based academic learning, state-of-art-infrastructure, exemplary academic resources, a continuous evaluation system, and a global outlook.

Pharmacists play a significant role in the ancillary healthcare services space. Their contribution to developing, testing, manufacturing, marketing and selling lifesaving medicines and medical components is invaluable.

Best Agriculture Science College in BundelKhand Madhya Pradesh
To impart quality education, research and training in the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences to help build a superior health care system, and contribute to the society and country.

Objectives
Develop qualified, innovative, and diverse pool of pharmacy professionals.
Collaborate with the pharmaceutical industry for R & D activities, to advance the science, development, implementation, and outcomes of safe and appropriate treatments.
Promote the health and well-being of the public, locally and globally.
Diploma of pharmacy (B.Pharm)
Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharm)
Pharmacy
Duration – 2 Years
10+2 pass with Physics, Chemistry and Biology or Mathematics

Or

Any other qualification as approved by the Pharmacy Council of India







School of Vocational Studies
Aiming to Achieve Entrepreneurship & Innovation

Vocational courses are the expressions of the students’ unique creative talents. These programs revolve around the essence of creativity coupled with unique innovation, to turn imagination into reality. The School of Vocational Studies of Eklavya University is one of the best institutes in Madhya Pradesh, focused on developing strong personal qualities along with enhancement of professional skills. The School aims at enhancing knowledge by providing practical hands on training with state-of-the-art facilities, workshops & labs to nurture students continuously. Technology has had far reaching effects on education. In order to keep our students ahead of the time, we believe in developing professional skills to suit the contemporary market. We have emerged as a platform for cultivating students’ talent by preparing them to achieve excellence in their chosen domains.


The School of Vocational Studies offers Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor and Master Courses. The School provides the highest standard of education and training with a professionally and academically accomplished faculty and a broad spectrum of visiting professionals. The School is currently offering the following areas of study – Engine Testing, Building Technology, Green house Technology, Mobile Communication, Software Development, Retail Management.

Objectives
Evolve into a pioneer institute for vocational entrepreneurship and innovation.
Create a dynamic learning and working environment which nurtures new ideas, creativity, and research.
Nurture skilful, innovative, socially committed, and intellectual professionals.
Develop the overall personality of students by encouraging them to become excellent professionals and ethical individuals.
Equip students with skills to enable them to participate in and contribute to the ‘Make in India’ Movement.
The Team
Experienced faculty members have developed a platform of rich, insightful learning and creative innovations. Their teaching pedagogies and novel practices nurture the next generation of talented professionals and entrepreneurs. Our faculty focuses on the overall development of the students for the betterment of the community and society.

Academic and Industry Interference
Regular activities such as seminars, workshops and conferences are conducted by repute trainers of the country. Eminent Entrepreneurs, innovators and thinkers are invited to share their experiences and learning with students, thus aiding learning and networking. The School has close ties with the National Skill Development Corporation. The Group is also home to a PMKVY project aimed at skilling the workforce of the region.

Career Scope
Computer Operator | Accountant | Beautician | Entrepreneur | Business Owner | Retail | Consultant | Manager

Bachelor of Vocational Studies
Master of Vocational Studies
Duration – 3 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass with 50% (45% for reserved category) in any subject from a Recognized Board.








School of Design
Aiming to Achieve Creativity

Design is all pervasive. The Department of Design at Eklavya University aims to help students discover their creativity and instil in them skills to be able to give form to their creativity. Indian art and traditional crafts form a cornerstone of the design sensibility prevalent at the School. The Department of Design aims to nurture creative minds to develop an ability to think outside the box and deliver creative and functional results.  The department aims to become a centre of excellence in design education. The academic programs at the Department of Design are designed to develop technical skill, social significance and artistic expression.


The Department offers Certificate, Diploma, Bachelor and Master Degrees in the areas of Fashion Design and Interior Design

The Team
The creative, multidisciplinary, experienced and energetic team of faculty members at Eklavya University help students in learning every phase of designing. They have both industry and creative experience. Apart from regular full time faculty members, the Department also invites eminent professional designers from across India to enrich the academic program and provide networking opportunities.

Academic and Industry Interference
The School continuously organises seminars and workshops to introduce students to design ideas, creative talent, and traditional crafts from around the world.

Career Scope
Retail Manager I Fashion Coordinator I Fashion Stylist I Fashion Consultant I Textile Designer I Sketching Assistant I Fashion Journalist I Interior Designer I Landscape Designer I Set Designer I Consultant

B. Design
M. Design
Fashion Design, Interior Design
Duration – 4 Years
Eligibility- 10+2 pass with minimum 35% in any subject, from a Recognized Board.




