Eligibility & Registration
All students who are seeking employment must register for campus placements with the T&P office.
Only registered students are allowed to appear in campus recruitment process.
The Registration form can be downloaded from the University website.
After filling the online registration form, students are required to submit a printed copy of form & photocopy of their testimonials (10th, 11th, 12th, B.Tech. all semester mark sheets) to the Training & Placement office.
Students having backlogs are advised not to register for placement. They are advised to improve grades and register after clearing the backlogs.
If a student does not appear for a campus drive despite confirmation, s/he will be disallowed from campus drives for the rest of the academic year.
Students will be de-registered from the placement cell if they are involved in any indisciplinary activities at any stage during campus recruitment.


Name: YOGESH KUMAR NAMDEO

Department: Training and Placement Cell,

Place: Eklavya University, Damoh, MP

about: Yogesh Kumar Namdeo leads the Training and Placement Cell at Eklavya University, driving a significant 80% boost in placement success through coordinated training programs and industry partnerships. With over 8 years of experience in project management and network operations at Tata Consultancy Services (TCS iON), he brings expertise in aligning technical education with industry standards.

Education: He holds a Ph.D. in Computer Applications and has published research on Big Data and Hadoop, along with holding a patent in agricultural machinery.





Name: Mr. Ramkinker Pandey
Education: Master Trainer, (Soft Skills,Motivational Speaker and Life Coach)

about: Mr. Ramkinkar Pandey is Post Graduated in English Literature & an EFLU (English and Foreign Language University, Hyderabad ) certified trainer with more than 25+ years experience in the training industry, specifically in the area of Soft Skills and ESL ( English as second language). He has worked with various universities of International repute like LPU, GLA.

He focuses his instruction to encourage and motivate students to evolve into confident communicators and develop a pleasing and professional personality. He is highly creative and develops activities to enhance communication, leadership, problem solving, and decision making skills of students. Over 70% of his sessions are learners' centred.




Successful Off Campus Drive at Eklavya University, Damoh
Another step towards a bright future of students!
Yazaki India Pvt Ltd & JBM Company Off Campus Drive organized by Training & Placement Cell of Eklavya University, Damoh. Dr. the Chancellor of the University. Sudha Malaiya ji, per Chancellor Mrs. Pooja Malaiya ji and Mrs. Rati Malaiya ji, Chancellor Professor Dr. Dr. Pawan Kumar Jain, General Secretary. Prafulla Sharma and Dr. This event was successfully completed under the guidance of Yogesh Namdev.
On this occasion detailed information about companies work style, salary structure and career opportunities by HR representative Madhu Patel ji. Diploma after completing registration process, B. Eh. And a total of 9 ETE students selected.
Selected students were advised to maintain honesty and dedication to their work while giving inspirational message by the University Chancellor and Vice Secretary. Various coordinators and teachers of the Training and Placement Cell played an important role in making this placement drive a success.




Successful Off-Campus Drive of Nipon CIE India Automobile Company at Eklavya University, Damoh!
Another accomplishment! 24 students selected in the off-campus drive of Nipon Company organized by Eklavya University’s Training & Placement Cell. This event is organized by Vice-Chancellor Dr. Sudha Malaiya ji, per Chancellor Mrs. Pooja Malaiya ji and Mrs. Rati Malaiya ji successfully completed.
Yogesh R, HR Manager of Nipon CIE India Company. Cabra ji gave company information to students and 24 students were selected out of 53 shortlisted students after the interview process.
Eklavya University is continuously striving for bright future of its students!





Training

Technical Training:
At Eklavya, we start training our students from their very first day on campus. Depending on their chosen school of study, students are trained in related technical skills. Engineering students for example, start with basics of C, C++, Java, Python, etc. to ensure industry readiness at the end of their education.

Aptitude:
Training pertaining to aptitude is especially important for students of professional courses. At Eklavya we ensure that students are rigorously trained from their first year at University. Effective training ensures that students are equipped with skills to helps grab the best jobs and also appear for various competitive exams.

Communication Skills:
Effective communication is the cornerstone of getting a lucrative job. At Eklavya, it is mandatory for students from all schools of study to participate in communications trainings as part of their daily curriculum. This approach helps students develop fluency and confidence thus ensuring workplace readiness and effectiveness.

Soft Skills Training:
Apart from communication skills we also encourage soft skills to enhance corporate readiness. Trainings include – Group Discussion, Resume Writing, Personal Interviews, Etiquette & Manners, Body Language, etc.








